
## S3

S3 provides developers and IT teams with secure, durable, highly scalable object storage. Amazon S3 is easy to use with a simple web services interfaces to store and retrieve any amount of data from anywhere on the web.

So what is S3?
* S3 is a safe place to store your files.
* It is Object-based storage.
* Spread through multiple devices and multiple facilities.

The basics of S3 are as follows;

* S3 is **Object-based** - i.e. allows you to upload files.
* Files can be from 0 Bytes to 5 TB.
* There is unlimited storage.
* Files are stored in Buckets (basically folders)

* **S3 is a universal namespace** That is names must be unique globally.
  * Thus will have its own web address
  * https://s3-eu-west1.amazonaws.com/acloudguru
  * two buckets cannot have the same address
* When you upload a files to S3, you will receive a **HTTP 200 Code** if the upload has been successful

* S3 is objected based. **Think of Objects just as files.**

Objects consist of the following
* Key (This is simply the name of the object)
* Value (This is simply the data and is made up of a sequence of bytes).
* Version ID (Important for versioning)
  * Does version control ( go to previous version)
* Metadata (Data about the data you are storing)
* Sub-resources
  * Access Control Lists
  * Torrent

How does data consistency work for S3?

* Read after Write consistency for PUTS of new Objects
* Eventual consistency for overwrite Puts and DELETES (can take some time to propagate)

In Other Words;
* If you write a **NEW** file and read it immediately afterwards, you will be able to view that data.
* If you update an "EXISTING file** or delete a file and read it immediately, you may get the older version. Basically changes to objects and take a little bit of time to propagate.


S3 has the following guarantees from Amazon;
* Build for 99.99% availability for the S3 platform.
* Amazon Guarantee 99.9% availability.
* Amazon guarantees 11x98s durability of information.

S3 has the following features;
* Tiered Storage Available
* Lifecycle Management
* Versioning
* Encryption
* MFA Delete (Multi Factor Authentication)
* Secure your data using **Access Control Lists** and **Bucket Policies**

## Storage classes

1. S3 Standard

99.99% availability
11x9 durability,
stored redundantly accoess multiple devices in multiple facilities, and is designer to sustain the loss of 2 facilities concurrently.

2. S3 - IA (Infrequently Accessed):
For data that is accessed less frequently, but requires rapid access when needed. Lower free than S3, but you are charged a retrieval fee

3. S3 One Zone - IA
For where you want a lower-cost option for infrequently access data,
but do not require the multiple Availability Zone data resilience.

4. S3 - Intelligent Tiering
Designed to optimize costs by automatically moving data to the most cost-effective access tier, without performance impact or operational overhead

5. S3 Glacier 
S3 Glacier is a secure, durable, and low-cost stoarge class for data archiving. You can reliably store any amount of data at costs that are competitve with or cheaper than on-premises solutions. Retreival times configurable from minutes to hours.

6. S3 Glacier Deep Archieve
S3 Glacier Deep ARchieve is Amazon S3's lowest-cost stoage class where a retrieval time fo 12hours is acceptable.

You are charged for S3 in the following ways;
* Storage
* Requests
* Storage Management Pricing
* Data Transfer Pricing
* Transfer Acceleration
* Cross Region Replication


## Cross Region Replication

* Something you can turn on thats for copying data over multiple regions

## Transfer Acceleration
* Amazon S3 Transfer Acceleration enables fast, easy, and secure transfers of files over long distances between your end users and an S3 bucket.
* Transfer Acceleration takes advantage of Amazon CloudFront's globally distributed edge locations. As the data arrives at an edge location, data is route to Amazon S3 over an optimizied network path.

## Exam Tips
* Remember that S3 is **Object-based:** i.e. allows you to upload files.
* Files can be from 0 Bytes to 5TB.
* There is unlimited storage.
* **S3 is a universal namespace.** That is, names must be unique globally.
* Not suitable to install an operation system on.
* Successful uploads will generate a **HTTP 200** statuscode.
* You can turn on **MFA Delete** (Protect your objects)

The Key Fundamentals of S3 Are;
* Key (This is simply the name of the object)
* Value (This is simply the data and is made up of a sequence of bytes).
* Verion ID (Important for versioning)
* Metadata (Data about data you are storing)
* Subresources;
  * Access Control Lists (Permissions of that object)
  * Torrent 
* Read after Write consistency for PUTS of new Objects.
* Eventual Consistency for overwrite PUTS and DELETES (can take some time to propagate)
